## Assignment 1 

* Execute using ``` pythona1_interactive.py ```

* Implements the basic image processing algorithms.

* Folder contains outputs to all the modules. Outputs generated by running a1_generateExamples.py file.

* All outputs are formed by applying the different modules on original image.

### Spatial Bilateral Filter (sbf.jpg)

* Implemented using reference paper attached. Two supporter functions - gaussian and scaledIntensity used.

* Values of standard deviations picked up from the paper examples - 'Image Denoising by Scaled Bilateral Filter'.

* Satisfactory results obtained. 

### Image Sharpening (sharpened.jpg)

* Implementation of unsharp masking : IMG <- IMG + k x (IMG - HPF).

* HPF used is a Gaussian Blur.

* Value of k = 1 for unsharp masking.

### Edge Extraction (edges.jpg)

* Laplacian Filter used from the openCV library.

* After applying filter, negative values were made positive.

* Results on original image are not noticeable as values are very small. Pre-processing required for adequate usage.

### Binary Thresholding (binary.jpg)

* Given image has a lot of localised noise at different positions. Adaptive Thresholding was effective.

* Mean of pixels in a given kernel size is set as threshold value. 

* Satisfactory results obtained.

### Corner Detection (corners.jpg)

* Harris' corner detection function in the openCV library was used.

* It measures the gradients of intensities (Ix, Iy) and if its value is high enough in all directions, a corner is detected.

* Results unclear, better choice of parameters or pre-processing required.

### Image Segmentation (segmented.jpg, line_segmented.jpg)

* For image segmentation, the meanshiftAlgorithm was used.

* By default, means are calculated in a spatial radius of 9 pixels within a color difference value of 15. Result stored in segmented.jpg

* To convert connected components to line segments, edgeExtractor was called. Result stored in line_segmented.jpg

### Morphological Operations (morphed.jpg)

* Inbuilt OpenCV morphological operations like erosion, dilation, opening and closing are implemented.

* By default, opening is implemented which is erosion followed by dilation, useful for denoising. 

* The default structuring element is a 5 x 5 np.array of ones.